[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief".
He's a regular on our
"Coast to Coast" AM
radio program, Jason Martell,
an expert in ancient mysteries
and technologies.
And we're here today
to talk about a lot
of different facets of what went
on and what is going to happen.
Jason, welcome to the program.
>>JASON MARTELL: Thanks
for having me back, George.
>>NOORY: You are a great
researcher, my friend.
I mean, you really get
into things in a big way.
>>MARTELL: It's
nice to have passion
around certain topics,
and ones that you
can share with other people.
>>NOORY: When you
were a little boy,
were you always interested
in strange little things
like this?
>>MARTELL: Probably.
You know, I was raised as a
very heavy Christian influence.
And as I got older, I had a lot
of questions about the Bible.
So I think I was always
prone to wanting to know more
and having a little itch to want
to find out and ask questions.
>>NOORY: When you go out and
start searching for information
about some of these mysteries,
the ancients especially,
how do you start?
>>MARTELL: Well,
usually it begins
with trying to
answer a question.
Some of these sites kind
of have an overriding theme
that point to certain
questions, meaning monuments
built around the world
all have some type
of astronomical purpose.
You'd think that some
of these ancient sites
would be built to protect their
clan or protect their village,
yet they went to great
lengths to observe the stars.
So a lot of the
research, for me,
just brings up questions
trying to understand
the context of what they
were doing in the past.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about them, and how
does that tie into the
procession of the equinoxes?
>>MARTELL: Every
culture around the world
seems to have had this
lost connected language.
Before the gods came down
and confused our languages,
they had a language
of astronomy,
and we know that today
because every culture,
every continent built structures
to monitor the heavens
and watch very accurately
as we progressed
through these different ages.
This seems to be
something that's
very important and embedded
into the ancient knowledge.
So yet today we're
trying to understand
why they built the megaliths,
and even more importantly,
how they did it
with such precision.
>>NOORY: Well, but we know
they did it, don't we?
>>MARTELL: We definitely
know that they did it,
and they did it for a reason.
>>NOORY: The late
Zachariah Sitchin
and his work "The
12th Planet", wrote
that there's another
planet in our solar system.
Comes around every 3,600 years.
What do you think
of that theory?
>>MARTELL: Well, as
you and I both know,
Zacharia Sitchin put in a
very esoteric level of work
studying Semitic
languages for 50 years.
And what's really interesting
about his research
is there were a couple
of points that are still
topics in mainstream science,
even though Zacharias
Sitchin passed away a few
years ago at the age of 93--
very impressive.
But one of the overriding
topics that he brought up
in the paranormal circles
was this term Planet X.
And what's been really
interesting about that term,
Planet X, is the
scientific community
has also latched on to this idea
that over the last 20 years,
something seems to be
pulling on the planets.
And they're looking for
something called a Planet X.
And Sitchin wasn't
using space science
as his repertoire of knowledge.
He was looking at the ancients.
>>NOORY: He was looking at the
Sumerian tablets and things
like that, right?
>>MARTELL: Exactly.
And so there's just a lot
of research and knowledge
that is still left in
these ancient tablets, some
of these ancient tales
talking about the creation
of the solar system.
So Zacharia Sitchin's
interpretation
of this information was rather
groundbreaking in the terms
of talking about Planet X.
>>NOORY: The Sumerian text said
Zacharia Sitchin deciphered.
Talk about a Planet X system.
They talk about Nibiru.
I believe it's scattered
throughout all of those texts.
>>MARTELL: It is.
It's been a topic that
mainstream science tries
to pinpoint to say that
it's misinformation,
but it's actually not.
>>NOORY: Or misinterpretation.
>>MARTELL: Or misinterpretation.
But when we look at these
texts like the Atrahasis
and some of these that explain
the cosmological origins of how
Earth came to be, it talks
about how this rogue planet
gets sucked in by the
gravitational pull
of the outer planets
and eventually comes
into a collision with
our primitive Earth,
called Tiamat at that point.
Now not Planet X hitting us,
but one of the moons of Planet X
hits us so strong that
whacks planet Earth
and spews out this debris that
we now call the asteroid belt
and moves us into a new orbit.
>>NOORY: And maybe our own moon.
>>MARTELL: Possibly.
I mean, even the Bible
calls the asteroid belt
the hammered out bracelet.
>>NOORY: When you mix
science with Sitchin's work--
ancient tablets
again, and texts--
there's a correlation.
That's what's so exciting.
>>MARTELL: It is.
And you know, mainstream
science is still
struggling with this,
George, and that's
part of what we're going
to talk about today.
But Zacharia Sitchin
started with,
the idea that there's
another planet connected
to our human evolution.
Now he goes very far
in this topic, again,
based on Sumerian evidence,
tablets and texts.
But he goes on a limb
to say that there
is another race connected to
us that we called ancient gods.
And they come from this
other planet that's
a part of our solar system.
So just from that alone,
that's a very heavy statement.
So to use science to try to
confirm any type of topic
like that, we're getting
into the next level for sure.
>>NOORY: Well, if you look
at Genesis in the Bible
and compare it to
the work of Sitchin,
and just change things a little
bit, it really makes sense.
He talks about inhabitants
from this planet, Nibiru,
this extra planet
called the Annunaki
that came here to
search for gold
because they needed to
protect their atmosphere
and sprinkle gold dust up there.
But they needed workers
to pull out the gold,
so they created
us, human beings.
Now if you then tie
that into Genesis,
the creation, fallen angels,
things that came down here,
Adam and Eve created,
it makes a lot of sense.
>>MARTELL: It really
does, George, and you're
very accurate in
your knowledge there,
of course, because when we look
at the Hebrew version and then
the English version of the
King James New Testament,
both of them are just
derivatives of these Sumerian
tales.
And so a lot of that
information that
talks about in the Sumerian
form, where the Annunaki came
here and wanted to create
a race in their image
and after their likeness to
mine this gold that they were
finding in Southern Africa to
use for their own purposes,
it's a very
interesting correlation
that we can look at a
lot of the Biblical tales
and see that there's
an earlier version.
More specifically, some of
these tablets like the Epic
of Gilgamesh, or my favorite
one is the Atrahasis.
And you know, we've all
heard of the Biblical tales,
the condensed version where
God created everything
in seven days.
And it's interesting to
note that the Sumerians,
for instance, have seven
tablets of creation.
Actually, it's a set of 13.
It's a more expanded view.
But all those tales
in the Bible we
can find in an earlier Akkadian,
or actually Sumerian version,
in a Sumerian script.
So wow, it raises
a lot of questions.
>>NOORY: How do you think
the information came
to the ancients, where
they could put them
in these tablet forms?
>>MARTELL: Now that's getting
into some good questions.
Modern scholars today will look
at ancient Sumer, Mesopotamia,
today's Southern Iraq.
>>NOORY: Cradle of civilization.
>>MARTELL: Cradle of
civilization, that's right.
Over 101 firsts come out of this
area for agriculture, writing,
kingship, systems of laws and
judges and things like that,
astronomy.
So the Sumerian
evidence is interesting
because there's no
precursor civilization
that they can connect
to them to say
that they were influenced
by these people
and they got the knowledge.
They literally just pop up
with all of these firsts.
So that really
raises the question
as to who were the influencers
to the Sumerian culture?
>>NOORY: And who taught them?
Who told them?
>>MARTELL: That's where we start
to get into beyond the realm
of Zacharia Sitchin.
>>NOORY: "Beyond Belief".
>>MARTELL: "Beyond
Belief", and realize
that as we start to see,
over the last 25 years,
shows like "Ancient Aliens",
your show and others,
are starting to find that
there's many ancient sites that
are starting to predate
mainstream science.
Looking at just Sumer
and ancient Iraq,
now we're finding
sites like Gobekli Tepe
and Bada Valley in
Indonesia, and even
Easter Island, some of
these sites like Rapa Nui.
We see that there is
a much older framework
of context for
civilizations to have
existed before written time.
And we're still trying
to connect those dots.
>>NOORY: You had
mentioned earlier
about these strange
gravitational pulls that
are out in the solar system.
And scientists don't
quite know exactly what's
causing it other than they think
there's an object out there.
The editor of "Discover"
magazine talked about some
of these strange anomalies.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- We know where we are on Earth.
We've mapped our planet.
Our solar system is
still terra incognita.
It's full of surprises.
This object is something
that astronomers
said shouldn't even be there.
There's a whole other solar
system beyond the planets
that we know that are full
of these things that are sort
of planets, sort of comets.
Some of them they
call dwarf planets.
That's what they're
calling this one.
What we're seeing is, we're
seeing our neighborhood.
We're seeing what's around us.
And then the second
part is we're
seeing where we came from.
- Go back to the other image,
you guys, and we'll show--
because we're over here
on the left, right?
- Right.
So we're over here.
There's Pluto.
- Pluto's out here.
And this thing called
Makemake is way out here.
- Right.
So that's another dwarf planet.
If you want to find out where
VP113 or Biden is located,
keep walking about
another 30 feet that way.
- Wow.
They can see that far.
- And this is the closest
it gets to the sun.
When it really gets cooking,
it's 15 times as far away
as Pluto.
- That's incredible.
- Takes 4,300 years
to go around the sun.
- I don't know how you
know that, but I trust you.
What is a dwarf planet?
- So dwarf planet.
The fact that you hear weird
terms like that is actually
scientists saying there
are things out there
we don't really understand.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: How exciting
is that, Jason,
that there are so many objects
out there that we're just
discovering?
>>MARTELL: It's so on
point and very interesting.
I mean, you know, Sedna,
Xena, Quaoar, Biden.
We keep finding all these
extra solar planets out there
that are smaller bodies not
quite the size of a planet
that was talked about
by Zacharia Sitchin,
or some of the things
that we're leaning toward.
>>NOORY: They tend to
get smaller the farther
out you go, I guess.
>>MARTELL: Right.
And the planet
we'd be looking for
would be like four to eight
times the size of Earth.
But what's really
interesting to note, George,
is that as you've said,
over the last 20 years
we've started to notice and
be aware of these influences,
that something's tugging
on the solar system.
>>NOORY: Something's out there.
>>MARTELL:
Something's out there.
And all the evidence for us to
continue to look at this topic
is mounting.
>>NOORY: How do we know that
it's not a binary star system,
a burned out star that was
a companion to our sun?
Most scientists are
beginning to say now
that almost every
star has a companion.
>>MARTELL: That's correct.
>>NOORY: We apparently
don't, unless it's this.
>>MARTELL: Well,
that's the thing,
is that there is quite
a bit of evidence
mounting to suggest
that most solar systems
external from Mars
are binary in nature.
So it's very possible that
we are a binary system.
But our second sun is
either a brown dwarf
or it's a star system that we
haven't quite yet identified.
But all the evidence,
George, shows us
that there's something
happening to the bodies that
are in space, even the
orbiters we send out there.
The plane of the solar
system is pointing down
in a southern direction.
All the satellites,
everything, all the planets,
>>NOORY: They're pulled down.
>>MARTELL: Are
feeling this pull.
>>NOORY: They're pulling, yeah.
>>MARTELL: So right now we're
looking for another planet,
saying there must be something
in the southern region causing
this pull.
But what if it's not a planet?
What if it's actually
another star system
that's affecting us and sending
these massive gravity waves?
And it's something that we're
still trying to figure out.
>>NOORY: Where would it be?
>>MARTELL: Well,
that's a good question.
The best candidate as of now is
possibly the star system Sirius
A and B. It seems to be
in the close proximity--
>>NOORY: Out that far, though.
>>MARTELL: Out that
far, but close enough so
that there seems to be some
correlation in that we might
have some type of a companion
system like a Sirius A and B
that we're traveling around.
It doesn't always necessarily
have to be another star.
It could be a cluster
system like Sirius A and B.
>>NOORY: All right.
If it's a star and
it's burned out,
what do you think
happened to it?
I mean, if our universe
is 14 billion years old,
if our solar system is
4.5 billion years old,
and they say that
the star, our sun,
is supposed to last what,
another 5 billion years, maybe,
what happened to this one?
>>MARTELL: Well, we're talking
about a time scale that's
extremely large, obviously.
And when we look at the idea
of different masses of planets,
brown dwarfs, any
type of thing that's
a Jupiter-sized planet and
larger, these large gas giants,
we have to understand
that it is possible
that we could have
some type of failed sun
that's billions of years
older than our current sun
and doesn't have the
type of heat or size
for us to easily detect.
But all the influence
suggests that there's
been a large amount of debris.
Even someone named Dr. Richard
Mueller has been looking
at the idea that possibly
for millions of years,
this Oort cloud beyond Pluto,
we send things like asteroids
and various things that
are in this orbit, .
They send us to bring into the
inner part of the solar system
and so there's the
possible thought
that the debris
and the things that
keep coming back into the inner
part of the solar system, there
must be something out there
that things are looping around.
Even a Planet X
would probably need--
if it's on a 3,600-year
elliptical orbit,
what's out there that's
causing it to loop back around?
So the idea of a second sun
starts to fill that question.
>>NOORY: The possibility
of these two suns,
do they affect the civilizations
here on the planet?
>>MARTELL: If we are
in a binary system,
all the evidence is
pointing to the fact
that there are processes
that affect us here on Earth.
This is a hard thing for
people to understand.
But there are two smaller
astronomical processes
that you can easily understand.
Cycle one is the Earth
is spinning on its axis,
and while it does that
it causes day and night.
We don't realize it, but
when it gets dark out,
we lose consciousness
and go to sleep.
All the plants quietly
close and go to sleep.
Now cycle number
two is the Earth
is orbiting around the sun.
Again, we don't take
much note to this,
but we realize that
because of that,
seasons change, animals migrate.
All the ancients said that
there's a third cycle, because
of this binary orbit,
that causes a rise
and fall of civilization.
This is a much
harder cycle for us
to understand because
it's 24,000 years.
But as a little analogy,
there's an insect
that lives here on Earth
that only lives for 24 hours.
Its whole life
cycle is 24 hours.
>>NOORY: Hate to be that insect.
>>MARTELL: The mayfly.
So as a joke, if a mayfly
is sitting on a branch
and another mayfly
comes up and says,
you know, I've heard of this
thing called the sun or wind,
but I don't see it,
and they both die,
that doesn't mean that the
sun and the wind don't exist.
They just didn't have a lifespan
long enough to understand it.
That's what we're
going through right now
with understanding this third
cycle of time, this lost cycle,
is that it does affect us, but
a much larger cycle of change.
>>NOORY: But it's there.
>>MARTELL: It is there.
And over 30 ancient
cultures tracked it.
>>NOORY: You know, the
Kepler Space Telescope
continues to look and
find other planets.
But in our solar system, other
than the small planetoids,
has modern science
found the big one?
>>MARTELL: It hasn't
found it yet, George.
But as I stated earlier,
what's really interesting
is that all the
objects we're finding
seem to be on a tilted plane
into the southern atmosphere.
Everything that's being
affected out there,
the orbits of planets, even
some of these newer ones
that we're finding, seem
to have some anomalous pull
into the southern region
which denotes that that's not
what we're looking for.
It's not Biden, Sedna, Quaoar.
There's something much larger
still influencing this pull.
>>NOORY: Where are you
headed with these theories?
What do you think is
the most palatable?
>>MARTELL: Well, the
most palatable for me,
George, is again, looking
at the latest sciences
that we've been
starting to uncover.
And up till now, the
greatest influence
for a gravitational anomaly,
some perturbation that's
pulling on the planets,
would be another large body,
some large planet.
That's what they've been
looking for, Planet X.
But my thought is that,
based on some of the things
we're seeing, there's been a
lot of new research showing
that gravity waves exist.
Somehow these black holes are
actually binary in nature,
and they come to a point where
they expand and then collapse
into each other.
And they've found that they're
creating these massive gravity
waves that literally
distort space time.
So my thought is that while
we're still currently looking
for a Planet X, science
is going to shift
this view with the latest model
of gravity waves and things
that we're learning, to maybe
look for something much larger
than a planet, possibly another
star system that's causing
this gravitational influence.
>>NOORY: The Kepler Space
Telescope, of course,
has found a planet
orbiting two suns.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Multiple star systems, people
looking up at multiple sunsets
and so on, is a familiar
theme from science fiction.
But this is the first time that
it has become science fact.
So in some sense, that
"Star Wars" sunset
on Tatooine that Luke Skywalker
saw has become a possibility.
In some sense, the
galaxy far, far away
has become our own galaxy now.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So it seems
pretty standard
that there are multiple
star systems out there.
>>MARTELL: It's great
how popular media
has started to influence
our understandings.
That scene, obviously,
in "Star Wars'" epic
where we see two suns.
>>NOORY: But they're
close together.
>>MARTELL: They
are close together.
And that correlates to another
topic, which we'll discuss,
which is the dark ages
versus the Golden Age,
and is there some relation
to us having two suns,
the two suns being
at their closest,
we seem to be in
this Golden Age.
Suns at their
farthest point, we go
into this type of dark
ages like "Game of Thrones"
type thing that we see.
But the idea of the two
suns being depicted in media
is very interesting and
probably very accurate
when we understand that there is
a lot of research to show that
over 30 ancient cultures
believed in the idea of two
suns and actually had quite
a bit of research that
was uncovered.
There was a book written called
"Hamlet's Mill" by an MIT
professor in 1969 looking into
why over 30 ancient cultures
were watching the heavens,
and made these references
to a binary star system.
>>NOORY: What's more
exciting and romantic?
Another planet in the solar
system that may be inhabited
or a burned out star?
>>MARTELL: Well, you know,
and again, the other thing
I'd throw out there
is maybe not even
a burned out star, but maybe
another active star system.
We look at some of these
ancient cultures that are still
off the radar from technology,
like the Dogon tribe in Africa,
and they're accurately
depicting star systems
like Orion and specifically
Sirius A and B.
>>NOORY: Before
science knew about it.
>>MARTELL: Exactly.
And you can't even really
see this with the naked eye.
You need math to
crunch the numbers
and understand
these correlations.
So some of these cultures
having this knowledge
really raises questions as
to who bequeathed it to them.
>>NOORY: What's your gut tell
you about our solar system?
>>MARTELL: My gut sense
is that there's just
a larger cycle of time that
has been put in place here
on Earth, and we're still
trying to understand it.
The Mayan calendar
got a lot of attention
when they ended in
2012 and people thought
it was the end of the world.
But it was the ending of an age.
And we go through cyclical ages.
And so I think
it's very possible
that through this idea
of a binary star system,
we're going to realize that time
might be cyclical in nature,
and it's been going much
further back than we currently
understand.
>>NOORY: During the 2012
episode with the Mayans,
a lot of people thought,
this is the end of the world.
It's all over.
Why did some
scholars think that?
>>MARTELL: It's just
a misinterpretation
of the knowledge.
There's been a lot of great
researchers like John Major
Jenkins, who actually
lives in these cultures
and understands at a
more esoteric level.
And it's not the end of time,
it's just the end of an age.
As I said, over 30
ancient cultures
watched this progression
as we traveled
through these different zodiacal
symbols that we call an age.
And so when we had the
ending of the last age,
the age of Pisces, crossing
over into the Age of Aquarius,
a lot of modern scholars, not
understanding this progression
of time, what we call today the
procession of the equinoxes,
they misinterpret
it and say, wow,
the Mayans are predicting
the end of time.
It's not the end of time.
It's like a clock.
It's just the ending of this
hour, the ending of this age.
>>NOORY: End of an era.
>>MARTELL: That's correct.
So the person watching
the program right now,
Jason, where we're
talking about another star
system or another planet,
is probably saying,
so really, what's
the difference?
How does that affect me?
So if we have another
star in our solar system,
what does that do?
Could that be a
catastrophe down the line?
Does that cause these strange
weather anomalies we're having?
>>MARTELL: Well, no one really
knows for certain, George.
But what we do know
is that science today
is tracking something called
the procession of the equinoxes.
>>NOORY: And explain that.
>>MARTELL: Of course.
It's a modern term that says
that every 72 years, our North
Star degrades by
about one degree
so that around every 2,000
years, our North Star
is literally pointing at
a new location in space.
Now the ancients used this
to track the constellations
that we go through.
They divided the
heavens into 12 parts,
the 12 houses of the zodiac.
So what's really
interesting to note
is that for thousands of years,
ancient cultures have been
watching the progression
of these ages,
where we just passed out of the
age of Pisces, as an example.
>>NOORY: Are we
into Aquarius now?
>>MARTELL: Well,
that's the thing,
is that if we look at it from
an astronomical standpoint,
the age of Pisces ended
right around 2012.
Now Pisces, again, is the
symbol of a fish, which is also
very symbolic to the age we
just left, which is very heavy
and the focus of Jesus.
You'll see people driving around
and they have a little fish
on the back of their car.
What they don't realize
is that's actually
a much older symbol than Christ.
It's an astronomical symbol
for the age of Pisces.
And Jesus being the age
of Pisces, the fish,
2012 was the kind of crossover
into the galactic plane
where the Mayans
were watching this
and said that age has ended--
>>NOORY: That's gone.
>>MARTELL: Now
we're into Aquarius.
People can even sort of feel
a shift about their religion
and their ideas of
what we believe in
to have more of
an expanded view,
and possibly more
open minded to things.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
about some of the things
that the ancients
worked on and what they
did in terms of their research.
They didn't have equipment,
they didn't have telescopes,
they didn't have computers.
Yet they had the
incredible ability
to understand the
constellations,
understand the
sciences of the stars.
How did they do that?
>>MARTELL: You know,
ancient man didn't
have the technological
layer that we
do to blind them at night
with lights and city
lights and various things.
They'd go out every
night and see just
this wonderful, immaculate sky.
And at the basic answer,
humans could go out every day
just as the sun is rising,
the time of heliacal rising
is what it's called.
And as the sun's coming
up, whatever constellation
the sun is rising in front
of would allow you to know,
oh, I'm in the Age of
Pisces, the Age of Taurus,
the Age of Aquarius.
So they used some
pretty simple things
to actually know where they
were in this cycle of time.
But what raises the eyebrows,
George, is the monuments
they built, all over the
world, every culture.
It seems to have been this lost
language written in astronomy,
where they were
monitoring the heavens
and built structures that
have alignments that repeat.
And we still don't
understand today
why they did that, but they
put a great amount of effort
into making these markers
in time, which we're now
just starting to understand
and see that even some
of the great ancient
cultures like Egypt,
we know that there's
an area called
the Dendera, these crypts.
And on the ceiling is
this huge wall relief
where the Egyptians are pretty
much depicting the sky of Egypt
at 8,000 BC.
>>NOORY: And it's accurate.
>>MARTELL: And it's
extremely accurate.
So if they built the
pyramids at 2,500 BC,
why are they referencing
constellations at 8,000 BC?
Now either they're a
much older culture,
or again, they're
monitoring a system of time
which we're still trying
to come up to speed with.
>>NOORY: What does
the Age of Aquarius
mean to us today, the fact
that we're now into that?
What does that mean?
>>MARTELL: I think the
Age of Aquarius, again,
looking at the
past track record,
is a time of great change.
It's a time when
things are starting
to be more and more questioned.
Science seems to
be outweighing some
of the traditional
theories of what's
influenced on maybe more of a
spiritual or religious plane.
So the Age of
Aquarius in the past
was always kind of the dawning
of enlightenment, the time when
we're just starting
to leave the dark ages
and come into a new,
hopefully Golden Age.
But we're talking thousands of
years for this to take place.
Many ancient cultures
looking at this cycle,
it's a 12,000-year cycle
to go into the Golden Age,
and then a 12,000-year cycle
descending out of the Golden
Age.
So it's a very, very
long process for us
to go through these changes.
>>NOORY: If there's another
star system out there somewhere,
what does that mean to us in
terms of helping this planet
or anything else?
>>MARTELL: Well, from the
research that we've been
looking at, George, if there is
a correlation with the binary
orbit affecting the rise and
fall of civilization here
on Earth, what we've
seen in the past is--
>>NOORY: Catastrophes too?
>>MARTELL: Catastrophes too.
It's a good interjection.
The last time we
were in a golden age
was probably about
10,000 years ago.
And then we see
these great monuments
like Giza, and even Gobekli Tepe
just recently being uncovered.
But Giza, as an example, we
see great feats of architecture
in the last Golden Age,
maybe 10,000 years ago.
What we also see is some
type of great cataclysm,
meaning something happened
around the 10,000-year mark
in the past.
>>NOORY: Atlantis.
>>MARTELL: Some great
flood, something.
We even see that the inner
walls that the Sphinx have
been inundated with water.
Last time it was raining
in Giza, 10,000 years.
So it's an interesting
thing to note
that if this correlation
of the idea that we
go into a golden age and into
a Dark Age, the last Golden Age
we were in, all the great
monuments around the Earth
seemed to align to this far
off date in the past of 10,000
years plus for the possible when
that great race was building
and doing that type
of architecture.
So we're still kind of
disconnected from that time
and trying to catch
up to what they knew.
>>NOORY: Where do we stand
with great researchers?
Are they still out there
doing what they do,
or do we need to get more
younger people in-- like you--
into the business
to keep this going?
>>MARTELL: Well, I
think there's definitely
a lot of room for more minds
to look at these topics.
It is interesting to note
that over the last 20
years, the amount of research
that we've been uncovering
looking at the ancient
sites, it starts
to raise a lot of questions.
And looking into the
past, this isn't actually
a new topic, George.
This idea of a great
cycle of time, Plato
called it the great year.
Some of the ancient seers
and rishis and Vedic texts
and some of these things
talk about this idea
of this binary solar system.
So there is a great
deal of knowledge
that comes from even
more ancient sources.
But we're still trying to
understand and interpret
the data that they put forth
even thousands of years ago.
>>NOORY: On our Gaia show,
which is called "Deep Space",
which is one of our programs,
researcher Billy Carson
talks about the Kali Yuga.
Let's look at that and
have you explain it after.
>>MARTELL: Perfect example.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I really believe in the Yugas.
You actually go through
a cycle of 27,000 years
where mankind goes
through the Bronze Age
and kind of gradually moves
back up to the Golden Age again.
And it's a process of basically
going back and starting over.
These things happen
from cataclysms.
And everything is cyclical.
When a cataclysm
happens, no matter
how far technologically
advanced you are,
you will get knocked back down.
I think this is why you
see the big rush now
to go to Mars by private space.
You see Elon Musk
and SpaceX talking
about taking 80,000 people
to Mars on a one way trip.
They're not coming back.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Billy's been on
"Beyond Belief" before.
Now what does Kali Yuga mean?
What is that?
>>MARTELL: So the ancient Vedic,
and some of these languages
that come from
Hindu and such, they
have the same idea of
this divisional heaven
into 12 parts.
And so they called
it the Kali Yuga,
and they had various terms,
just like Plato's Great Year.
He had the Iron Age, the
Bronze Age, the Silver Age,
and the Golden Age.
So even further back in time
we go to these Vedic texts,
and they have the Kali Yuga,
Dvapara Yuga, and all the ones
going up into the Golden Age,
just the same cycle of time,
but using different
terms to describe them.
One thing that's
interesting in that video--
you'll note that Billy mentions
the frame of 27,000 years--
to note that our current
understanding of precession,
they call it a lunisolar
wobble which is affecting us
based on the moon's movement.
And that's the mainstream
idea is that there's--
>>NOORY: That's the
cycle, isn't it?
>>MARTELL: Well, that's
the mainstream idea
today is that it's
caused by our moon.
But the research that
we're putting forth,
looking at a binary system,
would actually say that this
model is more like
24,000-year cycle.
And that would be because if you
think about two bodies orbiting
each other, they kind of
speed up and then slow down.
And so the mean
average, as they're
traveling through
space, takes our ages
to be around just a
little over 2,000 years
so that we have
12 constellations.
And you travel through each
one of those every 2,000 years.
It's roughly a
24,000-year cycle.
>>NOORY: Is the
binary system causing
catastrophes on this planet,
like the flood of Noah,
for example?
Like Atlantis sinking?
You made reference to that,
but do we know for sure?
>>MARTELL: We don't
know for sure,
but there does seem to be a
correlation between the rise
and fall of civilization
here on Earth
and the orbit of these
two suns in the sense
that we've been able
to plot that when
the planets, at their farthest
point, when the suns are
at their farthest point,
Earth seems to be in something
called the Dark Ages, where
we're very much materialistic,
very low in spirituality.
But then as these suns get
to their closest point--
and you can actually see
some of these references
in texts in ancient cultures
depicting two suns as to say
that we are in our Golden Age.
So there might be some
correlation, George,
that when the suns are
at their closest point,
there is this additional energy.
I mean, think about how
people feel when they go out
in the sunshine on a nice
summer day, full of energy
and these things that
propel us to feel good.
Sun goes away, you get
tired, you go to sleep.
So what if two suns
affect us in some way
that we just don't understand?
>>NOORY: What if it's a
yin and yang type thing?
Makes you feel good,
makes you feel bad.
>>MARTELL: Well, it could be.
But it is very possible that
the orbits of these two suns,
and the correlation of them
when they're closest to us, we
are in some type
of a Golden Age.
>>NOORY: Speaking
of Golden Ages,
a 1969 book called "Hamlet's
Mill" dealt with some
of these ancient cultures.
>>MARTELL: Right, which
is really interesting
to see that there is evidence,
even going into our past,
that we've been looking
into these topics.
And so there was a
very interesting book
called "Hamlet's
Mill" written in 1969
by a couple of MIT professors.
And what they did
was they were looking
at all the ancient cultures
and their references
to these astronomical
symbols and things that
seemed to show using
symbology of the 12 houses
of the zodiac to denote change.
Many of these scenes you
might see of someone slaying
a bull, or someone having fish,
or bucket of water pouring out.
And so it turns out that these
are all symbolic references
to this idea that the ancients
were tracking this larger
cycle of time.
And we're all aware that
we went through these ages,
and then these ages brought
great change, sometimes good
and sometimes bad.
>>NOORY: I am fascinated
with the thought
of ancient technology, what
they had, how they had it.
Are you convinced that
some of the ancients, maybe
the Egyptians, had
incredible technology?
>>MARTELL: 100%, George.
You know, the
research that we've
been doing through shows
like "Ancient Aliens"
and others shows that there
is some type of a world energy
grid.
All these monuments, especially
Giza, the three Great Pyramids,
they're built and
put geodetically
on the globe to be connected
in some way that in the past--
we don't understand
how or when--
they seemed to have been
sharing a subtle energy.
Now we don't know
why or what it's for.
But one of the theories that
seems to resonate with me
is that if we go into
the state of a Golden Age
and there's this natural sense
of enlightenment that just
drives us to feel good
and evolve naturally,
we're going to do everything we
can to hang on to that energy.
So it's very possible that a
lot of these great monuments
were built to
harness this energy,
meaning as we're coming
out of the Golden Age
and this energy is diminishing,
they built monuments
to somehow harness
this energy and hold
onto it as long as they can.
And that's just one example.
What we see from
ancient technology
are physical pieces
around the globe, again,
Giza being a great
example, where
were the pyramids really a tomb?
Or as Christopher Dunn --
>>NOORY: A power source.
>>MARTELL: That's right.
>>MARTELL: Tell me about
the world energy grid.
What's its purpose
and who built it?
>>MARTELL: Most scholars
today will accept the idea
that there was some type of
subtle energy being distributed
globally by all these
great monuments placed
at geodetic points.
We know for a fact
that they exist.
The question is who built that?
Now even in the last
Golden Age, there
must have been some knowledge
given to these people to say,
ah, we need to build
these monuments.
>>NOORY: Because they just
didn't develop it on their own.
>>MARTELL: That's right.
So there's a progression
of time that's
going back thousands
and thousands of years
to realize that when we were
in the last Golden Age, maybe
we had some understanding
that wow, we
need to build these monuments
to harness this energy.
But it goes back even
farther than them.
There must have been previous
civilizations that were aware
of this cycle and the need
to start to do something
to possibly build
this world energy grid
so that in the next cycle,
their ancestors would
pick up the work and be able to
further harness and understand.
Exactly what's happening
right now, George.
Just as you and I
take and understand,
we are now rebuilding
and picking up
that torch of knowledge to
bring light onto this topic.
>>NOORY: I assume the
grid is still around.
>>MARTELL: It is still
there, and there are still
subtle energy
gravitational anomalies
and things at a lot of
these megalithic sites.
And we're trying to
understand and interpret
why that effect is there.
>>NOORY: And what about
the ancient Indians
talking about flying machines?
The Vimanas, for example?
What the heck were they?
>>MARTELL: Right.
Right.
You have these Indian gods,
Krishna and various other ones,
that are having battles
with each other,
and sites like Dwarka
off the coast of India,
literally a submerged city
that must have existed
above the surface at one time.
But we have these
great tales that
come from the Mahabharata
and various Vedic texts,
some of them 10,000 years.
And they show Vimana and
craft aerial battles,
magnificent weapons being
used that sound like--
>>NOORY: Nukes.
>>MARTELL: Nuclear weapons.
>>NOORY: It was those ancient
stories of nuclear explosions
that got Robert Oppenheimer,
our father of the atomic bomb,
to start thinking about this.
>>MARTELL: You're right.
And he even depicted
the Indian god Shiva,
which is all about
you have to destroy
before you can recreate.
Even the Large Hadron Collider
has the god Shiva as its idol.
>>NOORY: Go figure, right?
>>MARTELL: We have
to destroy to be
able to find these particles
that we're now just starting
to discover.
>>NOORY: Cairo means Mars.
There's got to be an
Earth-Mars connection.
Did you know that?
>>MARTELL: Yes.
Well, now you're
getting into some fun
topics that originally sparked
my interest into all of these.
We look at stuff on
Mars, Cydonia and such,
which we can talk
about, but then
realize that there's monuments
here all over the Earth
that we still don't
have answers for.
So obviously, when we look
at Mars, look at Cydonia,
it starts to raise
a lot of questions
about the origins of
who could possibly
have been on Mars
tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands
of years ago?
>>NOORY: And what
happened to them?
>>MARTELL: And to have built
monuments that seem to reflect
the same things
that we have here--
possibly as you mentioned
in Cairo, in Egypt--
a large Sphinx-like
object, three pyramids,
some of these things, again,
that we see in Cydonia,
this large face that does
have lion-type characteristics
under further analysis.
>>NOORY: And eyeballs
and everything else.
>>MARTELL: It's a face.
So it really does raise a
lot of questions, George,
as to not only why those
monuments are on Mars,
but who built them.
>>NOORY: Jason, back in
2015, Dr. John Brandenburg
talked about
Cydonia, that region,
with compelling evidence.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- What have we got here?
Well, this looks like a
carved face similar to what
was carved by the Olmecs.
There's a fascinating parallel
through this of connection
with old Mexico.
So Mexicanos must go
to Mars because they
will understand this
place better, better
than most Americanos.
Most gringos will
not understand Mars.
But the Mexicanos, they
will, because it looks
like this is the Olmec heads.
By the way, you'll
notice one thing.
It's called a frame corner.
Also head ornaments,
those are all present.
The stuff on Mars
is pretty beat up.
I mean, this is probably
100 million years old.
Even on Mars there is erosion.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: 100 million
years ago on Mars.
That's amazing.
But it's really, I
think, compelling, Jason,
to be able to see that.
Now the skeptics
will say that mesa
we just looked at in Cydonia,
doesn't really happen.
It's not there.
>>MARTELL: Well, it is there,
and we've been filming it
over three decades now.
And what's really
interesting to note
is that the face seems to
have gotten worse over time.
Some of the original photography
that we took in the 70s--
>>NOORY: It's eroding
away quickly, isn't it?
>>MARTELL: Or
someone's nuking it.
I don't know what to say.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>MARTELL: Who knows?
But the face on
Mars seems to be,
as our technology in imaging
improves, the face degrades.
>>NOORY: What do you
think the face is?
>>MARTELL: I think the face
is a monument of some lost
civilization that was connected
to us, meaning the face used
to be right on the
equator of Mars.
Someone flying into our
solar system, that's
a pretty recognizable
calling card to say, hi, this
is what we look like.
>>NOORY: Hi, there.
We're here.
>>MARTELL: Right.
>>NOORY: Are we Martians?
>>MARTELL: I would
hope so, George.
I mean, all the evidence
points to the fact
that there's some lost
connection for us in space,
whether it be gods, aliens, or
something that we can't quite
understand.
We all have that
drive to reconnect.
Even the whole
process of death seems
to show us going up or
into a tunnel of light.
So I would sure hope that
human civilization has
extended beyond Earth, and
my gut tells me that it has.
>>NOORY: I've told so
many scientists, Jason,
that the primordial soup is
the same in the universe.
It's everywhere.
The seeds of life that
created us are everywhere.
When you can get the right
mixture of heat and water
with the ingredients
that are out there,
it's going to happen.
And over time, whatever
our life really is--
that's another show
all by itself--
something is going to
happen and develop.
And I think it's happened on
Mars, Venus, other areas, maybe
Europa, Jupiter's Moon.
But in Mars's situation,
what happened to that planet?
It had an atmosphere.
It had oceans.
What happened to it?
>>MARTELL: Well, we don't
really know yet, George.
That's one of the
overriding questions.
You mentioned many
planets, not just Mars.
And the idea that life could
exist on planet Mars today
is something that we're
still trying to prove.
And that's rather unfortunate.
Anyone who is really
interested in this question,
there's a lot of
public agencies--
JPL, Goddard Space Center,
Malin Space Science Systems.
And they all offer their
public archives for you
to look through their imagery.
Now anyone who's spent
the time to do this--
Vincent DiPietro,
Greg Molenaar--
way in the past,
found these pyramids.
Today other researchers
like myself,
when we look into
the NASA archives,
you find hundreds of images
showing water standing
on the surface of
Mars, algae and what
appear to be plant life all
over the surface of Mars.
Why isn't this on the news?
I don't know.
But I do know that there's
more than just NASA's presence
there.
So when you see other
agencies and their material
that they release,
for instance, ISA,
and they show depictions of
the Gusev Crater in color,
you see what appears
to be green vegetation.
Now NASA will take a
picture of the Gusev Crater
and it's only in
black and white.
>>NOORY: Looks trees
and stuff like that.
>>MARTELL: Still looks like
some type of vegetation,
but they're not as
forthcoming with the knowledge
as you'd hope that
they would be.
>>NOORY: Well, there's
always been talk
that there's a secret
Mars space program.
Andrew Basiago claims
that as a youngster,
he was beamed aboard--
now this is far out--
but that he was beamed aboard
and traveled to Mars and things
like that.
Corey Goode talks about
this on his program
on Gaia about a
secret space program.
You think that's possible?
>>MARTELL: You, know George--
>>NOORY: It's far out.
>>MARTELL: I know.
But my personal opinion
is that yes, you know,
what I like to talk about
in my research and lectures
is physical evidence that I
can hand to you and you decide.
These topics are a
little harder to confirm.
But again, anyone
who digs into these,
it's been out there
for a long time.
A video made a long
time ago, I think,
in the 70s, called
"Alternative 3",
shows literally the Russians--
>>NOORY: It's a Russian
landing in '62, right?
That's right.
1962.
The Russians are landing
on Mars in color,
and you see something scurrying
off outside the window.
Now it's dramatized.
It's not real.
But the point is that
there's enough evidence
to support the idea
that, yes, we've probably
been on Mars, the moon,
and maybe other places
for quite a long time.
And when you bring
up the idea of life,
you can go anywhere
on our planet
and lift up a rock or
a leaf, there's life.
Most likely this is
happening ubiquitously
throughout the solar system.
So on Mars, my gut instinct
is that yes, there's life.
Is there intelligent life?
That's the fun question.
>>NOORY: And if there
is, why keep it a secret?
To me this would be
one of the greatest
discoveries of mankind.
It does not negate the Bible.
It doesn't push you away
from talking about God.
Why would you keep it secret?
I mean, if I were
running the country
and we had a discovery
like this, or if we knew,
I'd go public with it.
>>MARTELL: And that's
why we're going
to vote for you for
president in the next term.
>>NOORY: You never know.
>>MARTELL: You know, George,
it's a good question.
But all I can do is
look at our track record
of how we've handled the data.
>>NOORY: Poorly.
>>MARTELL: Right.
NASA's inception in 1959,
hiring a big think tank
called the Brookings
Institute that
advised them, look, you're
going to go into space,
and particulates
and contaminants.
>>NOORY: Scare the world.
>>MARTELL: Right.
And so they put in mandates,
even in the late 50s,
to say that if you
find extraterrestrials,
if you interact with
them in any way,
even microparticles of them,
there's contamination issues,
there's societal,
political, religion.
>>NOORY: Things break down.
Society breaks down.
>>MARTELL: So we still have
a lot of that in place today.
And I agree with you,
it's time for change.
Change is happening.
NASA is a much
smaller organization
compared to the entrepreneurial
aspects of what we're
going to be doing in space,
SpaceX, Richard Branson
and his Virgin Galactic.
So I'm fairly
optimistic, George.
And I've always felt it
in my gut that hopefully
in our lifetime--
>>NOORY: I could tell.
>>MARTELL: Oh, it
would really be
nice for that egg to be
cracked open, to realize
we're not alone.
>>NOORY: What
exploration will we
discover on this planet
that will convince us
that the ancients had incredible
knowledge and high technology?
>>MARTELL: Well, I'll try to
give the short answer to that.
The thing that's
really caught my eye
is that some of these
Biblical tales around,
for instance, the
exodus of Egypt,
where the Hebrews were left
to go back to their land,
we hear terms like Akhenaten,
one of the first pharaohs,
the term Moses.
Turns out that a
lot of these stories
are also intertwined
with technology.
The idea that the Great
Pyramid wasn't a tomb
but was possibly some large
energy source being powered
by the Ark of the Covenant.
>>NOORY: What if
it's a spaceship that
just hasn't taken off yet?
All three of them.
>>MARTELL: That
would be interesting.
But we do have a lot of
evidence mounting to the idea
that, again, a world
energy grid, tests
that I've done with
the idea that they
had even light, electricity
in Egypt, the Dendera bulb.
>>NOORY: The Baghdad
battery, remember that?
>>MARTELL: The Baghdad battery.
So when we extrapolate
even larger out,
we see that some
of these monuments,
like the actual
Giza pyramids, might
have been powered
by some large energy
source like the Ark
of the Covenant,
always emanating rays
and fire and such.
So if that's the case,
we have to understand
that there was a much deeper
rooted technology being
used in the past.
We don't understand it yet.
We still think of it as
something of the gods.
>>NOORY: Jason, thanks for being
a guest on "Beyond Belief".
>>MARTELL: My pleasure,
George, as always.
>>NOORY: One day we'll
get you the answers
to these compelling questions.
What did the ancients possess?
Did they have high technology?
Are we in a binary star system?
We'll get you the answers one
day here on Beyond Belief".
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]